As many people say, data is everywhere. Most people do not know how to utilize the data resources and how valuable it is. Besides, due to the advertisements, terms such as Big Data, AI seem to be one of the marketing terms. That makes people tend to believe that AI can solve any and whatever problems, although it is not. So, I would like to discuss the overall data science workflow throughout my experience.

As a rule of thumb, there are five steps; the number of steps depends on how to divide the workflow. The first step is that set a goal clearly and specifically because it has a strong effect on the rest of the steps. Without any clear objective of the project, no matter how computer super good, it loses the way just like no navigator in a ship. The second step is collecting data that is related to a goal. For example, if the goal is that predict water’s sales at one convenience store in Tokyo for the next 6 months, I need the data including price, brand name, temperatures, humid, location, et cetera. The third one is cleansing. It is called data wrangling or data mining, but many people seem to use data cleansing more. Throughout this step, I check the data whether it has a missing variable if so, decide how to transform it, and draw some visualization for finding some specific patterns. Next, create a model using machine learning methods and validate the created model. As an example as above, sales forecasting problems usually using regression methods. In general, split the data set into two parts; one is called a training data for creating a machine learning model, the other one is called a testing data for validating the model you created. I usually prefer to split as 70:30 but it depends on the volume of data and dependent variable’s condition. After all those steps are good, I start to write a report for sharing with insights and suggesting a new idea. Whenever I realize that I need to put more data or something is wrong with the model during the project, then I always go back and repeat those steps.

To sum up, among the several steps of the workflow, not only setting a clear goal, and repeating as a try-and-error is an essential feature of a data science project, but also connecting to whether it will be a successful project.
